First Paper
Acquisition of handwriting in children with and without dysgraphia: A computational approach
T. Gargot, T. Asselborn, H. Pellerin, I. Zammouri, S. M. Anzalone, L Casteran, W. Johal, P. Dillenbourg,
D. Cohen, C. Jolly

BHK scores 
-BHK handwriting quality score based on the sum of 13 quality item scores (raw and normalized with age):
Writing is too large
Widening of left-hand margin
Bad letter or word alignment
Insufficient word spacing
Chaotic writing
Absence of joins
Collision of letters
Inconsistent letter size (of x-height letters)
Incorrect relative height of the
various kinds of letters
Letter distortion
Ambiguous letter forms
Correction of letter forms
Unsteady writing trace
-BHK speed (raw and normalized with age) 
The numbers of characters written in 5 min

Digital features
Static features Space between Words
Standard deviation of handwriting density
Median of Power Spectral of Tremor Frequencies
Kinematics features Median of Power Spectral of Speed
Frequencies
Distance to Mean of Speed
Frequencies
In-Air-Time ratio
Pressure features Mean Pressure
Mean speed of pressure change
Standard deviation of speed of pressure change
Tilt features Distance to Mean of Tilt-x
Frequencies
bandwidth_tiltx
Median of Power Spectral of Tilt-y
Frequencies


Second paper
Dysgraphia detection through machine learning
Peter Drotár, Marek Dobeš

-Feature description
Velocity Overall change of position for a certain time mean, median, standard deviation, maximum, 
minimum, 5th percentile, 95th percentile)
Vertical/horizontal velocity Overall change of vertical/horizontal position for a certain time (mean, median, standard 
deviation, maximum, minimum, 5th percentile, 95th percentile)
Acceleration Change of speed for a certain time (mean, median, standard deviation, maximum, minimum, 
5th percentile, 95th percentile)
Jerk Rate of change of acceleration (mean, median, standard deviation, maximum, minimum, 5th 
percentile, 95th percentile)
Vertical/horizontal jerk Rate of change of acceleration in vertical position (mean, median, standard deviation, maximum, minimum, 5th percentile, 95th percentile)
Pressure Te pressure of the pen tip on the surface (only for on-surface movement) (mean, median, 
standard deviation, maximum, minimum, 5th percentile, 95th percentile)
Altitude Te angle of the pen in the horizontal plane (only for on-surface movement) (mean, median, 
standard deviation, maximum, minimum, 5th percentile, 95th percentile)
Azimuth Te angle of the pen with respect to the vertical axis (only for on-surface movement) (mean, 
median, standard deviation, maximum, minimum, 5th percentile, 95th percentile)
Temporal duration of the segment (Mean, median, standard deviation, maximum, minimum)
Length of the segment (Mean, median, standard deviation, maximum, minimum)
Length in the vertical/horizontal direction (Mean, median, standard deviation, maximum, minimum)
Width/height of the segment (Mean, median, standard deviation, maximum, minimum)
Pen lifs Number of pen lifs during writing
Number of Changes in velocity Number of local extrema of velocity
Number of Changes in acceleration Number of local extrema of acceleration
Duration Total writing time
Length Length of the writing movement
Vertical length Length of the writing movement in the vertical position
Horizontal length Length of the writing movement in the horizontal position
Dif end segments Diference between the minimal/median/mean/max of the y-positions of the frst and last 
segments
Dif pre-end segments Diference between the minimal/median/mean/max of the y-position of the second and penultimate segments
Variance of y position Variance of the min/max/median/mean of the segment’s y-position


Terzo Paper
Dysgraphia Identification from Handwriting with Support Vector Machine Method

-Features:
Pressure
Distance each letter
Time (in second) 
Ideal or not *1 OR 0
Position (is in parallel or not) *1 OR 0
Consistency of the boundary line *1 OR 0
*1 mean yes, 0 mean no


Quarto Paper
Dyslexia and Dysgraphia prediction: A new machine learning approach
Gilles Richard, Mathieu Serrurier

-Features
1. Slant : The slant feature corresponds to the direction of the handwriting. We normalize by converting the values from 0 (left slant) to 1 (right slant).
2. Pressure: The estimated pressure of the handwriting from 0 (low) to 1 (high).
3. Amplitude : This is the average gap size between x-height and ascending/descending
letters, from 0 (low) to 1 (high).
4. Letter Spacing: This estimates the average spacing between letters in a word. Typically, a cursive writing style will lead to 0, from 0 (small spacing0 to 1 (large
spacing).
5. Word spacing: This estimates the average spacing between words in a sentence,
from 0 (small spacing) to 1 (large spacing).
6. Slant Regularity: from 0 (not regular) to 1 (highly regular).
7. Size Regularity: from 0 (not regular) to 1 (highly regular). Measure if the same
letters vary.
8. Horizontal Regularity: from 0 (the text doesn’t follow an horizontal line) to 1 (the
text follows an horizontal line).



